{
  "magic": "E!vIA5L86J2I",
  "timestamp": "2025-07-20T01:17:31.614306+00:00",
  "repo": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
  "labels": [
    {
      "name": "bug",
      "description": "Something isn't working",
      "color": "d73a4a"
    },
    {
      "name": "documentation",
      "description": "Improvements or additions to documentation",
      "color": "0075ca"
    },
    {
      "name": "duplicate",
      "description": "This issue or pull request already exists",
      "color": "cfd3d7"
    },
    {
      "name": "enhancement",
      "description": "New feature or request",
      "color": "a2eeef"
    },
    {
      "name": "good first issue",
      "description": "Good for newcomers",
      "color": "7057ff"
    },
    {
      "name": "help wanted",
      "description": "Extra attention is needed",
      "color": "008672"
    },
    {
      "name": "invalid",
      "description": "This doesn't seem right",
      "color": "e4e669"
    },
    {
      "name": "question",
      "description": "Further information is requested",
      "color": "d876e3"
    },
    {
      "name": "wontfix",
      "description": "This will not be worked on",
      "color": "ffffff"
    },
    {
      "name": "-00",
      "description": "",
      "color": "bfdadc"
    },
    {
      "name": "-01",
      "description": "",
      "color": "AB8910"
    }
  ],
  "issues": [
    {
      "number": 1,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6ZuWWz",
      "title": "Move section 4 to RFC4053bis",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/1",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "that section talks about consensus and transmission of liaison statements, however, this is not specific to LS where we have a formal liaison relationship. Therefore it should not be part of this document but RFC5043 instead.",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-10T14:38:41Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-12T13:37:42Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-12T13:37:42Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 3,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6c0n1g",
      "title": "Explain that informal relationships are preferred",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/3",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-00"
      ],
      "body": "There needs to be some text to document our current unwritten policy (needs to be rechecked for consensus) that informal relationships with other organizations are preferred over formal liaison relationships if they are sufficient. Section 2.4. talks a bit about this in the case of transmittal of liaison statements but this is a broader matter. ",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-03T07:47:00Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:48:11Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-20T15:48:10Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Regarding section 2.4, one following up question is:\nHow to distinct formal communication from non-formal communication? If Liaison manager has been appointed to interface\u00a0with one org, it seems to mean that there is formal liaison relation.In case of formal liaison relationship, can you use non-formal communication channel?Another case, is there is no formal liaison relationship and there is no liaison manager to be assigned to this org, can I use such non-formal communication channel? in such cases, who will be responsible for updating status of ongoing\u00a0work to other org?",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T12:11:18Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T12:11:18Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "merged #14",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:48:10Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:48:10Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 4,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6c0oVq",
      "title": "Explain that liaisons have no special place in the IETF processes",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/4",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-01"
      ],
      "body": "There needs to be text in the document that everyone is open to participate in the IETF: all the documents are freely available to everyone and any input/output going through the liaisons is really going through the same WG/IETF process as any other participants.",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-03T07:50:13Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:08:47Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-13T15:08:47Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "It seems to me there is gray area whether this issue should be addressed in RFC4052bis or RFC4053bis?",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T12:41:58Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T12:41:58Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "See section 1:\n\"\nIt is important to note that participation in the IETF work is open to everyone, and all the working documents and RFCs are freely available to everyone without the need for a formal liaison relationship. Hence, in almost all cases the need for a formal relationship is mostly driven by other organizations rather than by the IETF.\n\"\n\nSee section 2.3:\n\"\nNote that communications between organizations have no difference to any other IETF contributions and should follow the same IETF process and polices and should be open to everyone for inputs and contributions, e.g., input discussion in specific working group in the IETF.\n\"\nIs this something we have already fixed? No?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-04T03:31:04Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-04T03:31:04Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "We now also proposed more text for the intro in 4053bis. That seems sufficient to me. Should we close the issue here?",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T13:50:59Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T13:50:59Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "This has been addressed in new text added in rfc4053bis.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:08:47Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:08:47Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 5,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6c0ozp",
      "title": "Checklist for creation of relationships",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/5",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-00"
      ],
      "body": "Work on some form of checklist with typical items that might require setting up a liaison relationship. In most cases this would be related to the other SDO's processes. e.g. Can the SDO's standards be freely accessed or does that require a liaison to access them, how can input be provided to their processes etc.",
      "createdAt": "2024-11-03T07:54:13Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:56Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:54Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Added non exclusive checklist with a few possible reasons",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:54Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:54Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 6,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6m-XSA",
      "title": "Should we merge RFC4691 into RFC4052bis?",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/6",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-01"
      ],
      "body": "RFC4691 (https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4691) seems to actually duplicate quite some thing from RFC4052, there I think it would be more beneficial to merge them together. Especially section 3.4 and 3.5 of RFC4691 should be merged with section 3 and 4 of RFC4052, respectively. Also we chould add a more clear statement on \" Speaking for the IETF\" Section 3.1.1 of RFC4691 to RFC4052bis. But not sure if we need much from section 3.2 and 3.3 though.",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-21T10:22:17Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:12Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:12Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "related to #9 as well ",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-04T03:39:32Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-04T03:39:32Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 7,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6m-ZdP",
      "title": "Do we still need the liaison representative role?",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/7",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [
        "mirjak"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-00"
      ],
      "body": "This role exists in RFC4052 but I don't think we use it. I think it better to only have one decided responsible person. If that person is not available for some reason, the IAB or the IAB liaison coordinators should cover any urgent issues directly. If a liaison manager generally needs help, it might be sufficient to ask inofficially for support from a specific person for a specific topic but I don't think we need a formal process around this. Again, bottom line is we don't seem to use it.",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-21T10:25:43Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:46:02Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-20T15:46:02Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "Agreed that we don't need anymore (at least not formatting in the RFC)",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-12T13:43:56Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-12T13:43:56Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Section 1 said:\n\"\nWhen the liaison relationship is expected to encompass a complex or broad range of activities, more people may be designated to undertake some portions of the communications, coordinated by the liaison manager.\n\"\nIf we remove liaison Representative role, section 1 and also section 2.3 should be cleaned up or deleted.",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T13:23:50Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T13:23:50Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "#18 merged",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:43Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:43Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 8,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6oUKp4",
      "title": "Remove ISOC",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/8",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "RFC4052 says:\n\n\"the IAB acts as representative of the interests of the IETF and the Internet Society in technical liaison relationships with other organizations concerned with standards and other technical and organizational issues relevant to the worldwide Internet.\"\n\nI don't think we should name ISOC here. Usually ISOC is not involved in any of these are liaisons are usually relationships between technical organisations.",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-31T15:54:16Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:51Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:49Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "PR #12 merged",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:49Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 9,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6oUO02",
      "title": "terminology: define and use \"formal liaison relationship\"?",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/9",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-01"
      ],
      "body": "Usually the term \"liaison\" is quite loosely used. e.g. people might call a liaison statement a \"liaison\" or assume that there is something like a default liaison between all (technical orgs). We should clearly define that informal liaison relationships are fine when e.g. when formal liaison statements or any entirely information communication between groups. However, we only talk about a formal liaison relationship if on our side the IAB has appointed a liaison manager and on the other side there is some kind of agreement or process recognises this relationship (formally); this may include cases where the other org has also appointed a liaison manager but no other written agreement. ",
      "createdAt": "2025-01-31T16:02:21Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:11:20Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-13T15:11:20Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Should such unwritten agreement be documented in this RFC4052bis? Or we just acknowledge such unwritten agreement exist?\nnote that whether a liaison manager can be appointed from other side and interface with IETF is not something we can influence? no? or we should have best practice to make sure both side have liaison manager to interface with each other's SDOs.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-04T03:06:59Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-04T03:11:55Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Made changes and verified that the term liaison is always qualified with whether it refers to the relationship, manager or statement. ",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:11:20Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:11:20Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 10,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6pCYnT",
      "title": "Main responsibility of LM is good communication between orgs",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/10",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "-00"
      ],
      "body": "Sec 3 lists responsibilities of LMs. There are effectively 6 points in random order. I think we should make it much more clear that the one main (and basically only real) responsibility is to manage a good communication between the orgs. This includes of course caring about LSs (make sure they are correctly formatted, are sent to the right place on both sides, and support people sending replies in time) but also any additional communication e.g. to communicate back informally e.g when no reply is sent or explain our process or redirect questions to the right place. This may of course require to go to the meeting in some form at least.\n\nBut I think especially the point about providing updates is more optional. Making the IAB aware of issues is part of the communication bit, but giving real updates on what's happening in the other org might not necessarily be possible as orgs like 3GPP and ITU-T are big and probably hard to follow by one person only. If the LM gives these updates it's a nice service but not a requirement on the job.\n\nAlso we have these IAB program which are usually lead by the LM and these activities can be seen as important for ensuring good communication, however, it doesn't necessarily have to be the LM that leads these program. I think it usually makes sense that way and this is also the way all these programs work right now but it could also be a different person, e.g. if a split of load is desired.\n\nFurther, it is not the responsibilities of the LM to change anything in the way liaison management works. If there is a problem, the IAB should be notified and the IAB need to address the problem (potentially of course with the help of the LM as the LM is the matter expert).\n\nAlso inline with RFC4691 we should make more clear that it is not the job of the manager to directly engage in technical discussions (rather than beginning the messenger or pointing people to existing consensus positions). Of course a LM can participate in any technical discussion in its personal capacity but the LM cannot speak for the IETF, nor has their voice any higher weight.\n\n",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-06T16:15:09Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:34:13Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-19T23:34:13Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 13,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6pxZQs",
      "title": "Do we need to describe liaison relationships for IRTF",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/13",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [
        "-01"
      ],
      "body": "There are liaisons that are received that might be relevant for research groups. Currently this is informally processed through the IRTF chair who is part of the IAB. Do we need to formalize this somehow in this document.",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-12T13:51:06Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T15:46:14Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "I feel describing liaison relationship for IRTF is over engineering since the focus of RFC4052bis is IETF liaison relationship management. Since we have already had several exceptional cases to receive liaison statement from ITU-T, here is proposed text\nto section 2.3:\n\"\nIn case of liaison statements sent to IAB from other SDO for research topic consultation, IAB can choose to forward them to IRTF\nresearch group. IRTF chair as a member of IAB can work with IAB, specific IRTF research group chair to decide whether the response liaison statement is needed.  Procedures for responding to liaison statements is similar to one discussed in [I.D-iab-rfc4053bis]. Note that IRTF as closely related organization of IETF, should not send liaison statement proactively.\n\"",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-04T02:56:14Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-04T02:56:14Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 19,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6q3GeP",
      "title": "Dealing with previous IAB authorship and acknowledgements",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/19",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:50:22Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-27T13:09:32Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-27T13:09:31Z",
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "merged #22",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-27T13:09:31Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-27T13:09:31Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 20,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6q3hAb",
      "title": "Add a \"Changes from RFC4052\" section",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/20",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [
        "-00"
      ],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-20T16:27:49Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T00:15:48Z",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-23T00:15:48Z",
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 31,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6y-YnD",
      "title": "Should we mention IAB support groups in this doc?",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/31",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "An the IAB webpage on liaison coordination we also mentions IAB support groups:\n\n\"For a few liaison relationships with organizations where there are a larger number of document dependencies, especially when specifications are developed in parallel, the IAB in addition maintains Coordination Support Groups: currently there are groups for [IEEE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/iabasg/ietfieee/about/), [3GPP](https://datatracker.ietf.org/iabasg/ietf3gpp/about/), and [W3C](https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/ietfw3c/about/).\"\n\nThese groups and the liaison manager role are from my point of view actually independent, meaning that I think we could have a group even without having a formal liaison relationship with a liaison manager and even if we have a liaison manager that doesn't automatically mean that that person also needs to lead the group. Of course usually that setup makes sense but I don't think we have any such formal requirements. Maybe it's worth to write this down somewhere? However, maybe this is not the right doc or maybe we shouldn't write this in an RFC at all because IAB support groups are not a concept that is defined by any RFC?",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-17T14:38:25Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-04T07:08:39Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Section 2.1 said:\n\"\nThe peer organization often has different organizational structure and procedures than the IETF, which will require some flexibility on the part of both organizations to accommodate.\n\"\nwhat else do we need?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-04T07:08:37Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-04T07:08:37Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 33,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6y-0D3",
      "title": "Designed to accommodate process requirement of various other SDOs",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/33",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [
        "sureshkrishnan"
      ],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "I think it would be good to note right at the beginning of the document (in the intro?) that the processes described in this document are designed to accommodate requirements derived from the processes of various other SDOs. Every SDO works different but many have the general concept of a liaison relationship which is required from their side for inter-SDO communication. While the IETF does not have such a requirement (and therefore no special-standing of input or participation though a formal liaison relationship) the liaison process is designed such that we can enable good communication and collaboration with other SDOs. As such we try to have the processes in this document simple, light-weight and flexible to be able to potentially address different requirements from others SDO using the same process on our side.",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-17T15:22:03Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-15T11:37:57Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "Discussed at liaison coordinator meeting on April 23, 2025. Suresh will propose text.",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-23T14:37:40Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-23T14:37:40Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "Actually I added some text on this for 4053bis. So maybe it's enough to have it there? Or maybe it's good to have it in both...? I guess we can leave this issue open for -02",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T13:49:20Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T13:49:20Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "Based on some recent feedback in the mailing list, I think we need to better define what we mean by a formal liaison relationship where we might follow some paper work and assign a liaison manager but that we of course have more (less-formal) relationships with various organizations.",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-15T11:37:57Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-15T11:37:57Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 38,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6-XhLe",
      "title": "Link to subscribe to IAB list in the \"About This Document\" section",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/38",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "cindymorgan",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The \"About This Document\" section contains:\n\n>    Discussion of this document takes place on the Internet Architecture\n>    Board Internet Engineering Task Force mailing list\n>    (mailto:iab@iab.org), which is archived at\n>    https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/iab/.  Subscribe at\n>    https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/iab/.\n\nBut the IAB list has a closed membership and no archive. Should this point to architecture-discuss instead?",
      "createdAt": "2025-07-01T21:13:37Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-07-01T21:15:00Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 39,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c6-3Obh",
      "title": "Check with ISOC about removing ISOC from the doc",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/39",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-07-04T10:24:58Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-07-04T10:24:58Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 40,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c7BI4fC",
      "title": "Clarify intended process and document status in appendix",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/40",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "dhruvdhody",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "It might be helpful to explicitly describe the intended process for this document within the I-D itself, perhaps in an appendix.\n\nSpecifically, we should explain that:\n\t\u2022\tRFC 4052/4053 are BCPs.\n\t\u2022\tThe current draft is marked as Informational until the IAB completes its process and formally approves it.\n\t\u2022\tAfter IAB approval, an AD will take over, and the document will enter the IETF process to update its intended status to BCP.\n\t\u2022\tAt the time of publication, this explanatory section can be removed.\n\nThis clarification would make the intended path clearer to readers and reduce possible confusion during review.",
      "createdAt": "2025-07-17T17:16:15Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-07-17T17:16:15Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    },
    {
      "number": 41,
      "id": "I_kwDOMUjy5c7BJC7T",
      "title": "Why does the document not mention IAB Liaison Coordinators?",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/issues/41",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "dhruvdhody",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Given that IAB Liaison Coordinators play a key role in managing relationships and communication between the IAB and external organizations, I\u2019m wondering why this role isn\u2019t referenced here.\n\nIs there a reason we don't want it to be listed in an RFC? \n\nEspecially in this paragraph, adding liaison coordinators before the whole IAB makes sense! \n\n>    Since the IAB is ultimately responsible for liaison relationships,\n>    anyone who has a problem with a relationship (whether an IETF\n>    participant or a person from the peer organization) should first\n>    consult the IAB's designated liaison manager, and if that does not\n>    result in a satisfactory outcome, the IAB itself.",
      "createdAt": "2025-07-17T17:33:07Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-07-17T17:44:59Z",
      "closedAt": null,
      "comments": []
    }
  ],
  "pulls": [
    {
      "number": 2,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c5-PB95",
      "title": "remove section 4",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/2",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "fixes #1",
      "createdAt": "2024-10-10T14:43:53Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-12T13:37:41Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "c4b482abd1cc8a3ce15a0cccbb3812de64b11b74",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-1",
      "headRefOid": "3c0a8c1d1151addf9ba40a12254d0bff231545fd",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-12T13:37:41Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-12T13:37:41Z",
      "mergedBy": "mirjak",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "e1467838a137ff431cc6d957fc8039695dac7e0e"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 11,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6K1IMd",
      "title": "new proposed text on liaison manager responsibilities",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/11",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "fixes #10",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-11T16:29:13Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:34:12Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "f2a87ad9fada43086581acebe8f9c6ec3f82ea42",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-2",
      "headRefOid": "52490866c81d9ac0503caf92b6bf09f1ad29d64e",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-19T23:34:12Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-19T23:34:12Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "bfc3957696dc531075f3dd67ede1e054ab849e0c"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 12,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6K9U6K",
      "title": "remove ISOC",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/12",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "fixes #7",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-12T13:45:16Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:24Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e1467838a137ff431cc6d957fc8039695dac7e0e",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-3",
      "headRefOid": "6d94c59d979b91d0656c371a2fa45879e8b844f2",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:24Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-12T15:00:24Z",
      "mergedBy": "mirjak",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "e3464026e1e6d2b7b735f39943af6ff43f07b0e4"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 14,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6Ll0_V",
      "title": "Explain that informal relationships are preferred #3",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/14",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "The key point is Information communication and formal communication don't rely on whether there is liaison relationship. without liaison relationship and liaison manager, we still can use informal channel and formal channel, formal channel means we use liaison statement as tool for communication.",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-18T12:34:52Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:35:28Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e3464026e1e6d2b7b735f39943af6ff43f07b0e4",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-1",
      "headRefOid": "50d2adef156ceb9665d05949bc3b121e6dfdcb81",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-19T23:35:28Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-19T23:35:28Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "369f9478d17c8e75c04374919d85517d9e8d9f13"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Fix #3 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T12:38:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T12:38:49Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 15,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6LmJZ9",
      "title": "Explain that liaisons have no special place in the IETF processes",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/15",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-18T13:11:08Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:58:23Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e3464026e1e6d2b7b735f39943af6ff43f07b0e4",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-2",
      "headRefOid": "e893780d4b2bea111297e170bba95980a5b29c51",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-19T23:58:23Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-19T23:58:23Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "104e0a03c337e8d961c233d9bbf65c31e2595dd3"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Fix #4 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T13:12:27Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T13:12:27Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6cp9nN",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "e893780"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-19T23:57:47Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:58:14Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 4,
              "body": "I think this needs to talk about this only from the IETF side because we do not know if this true from the other organizations' side",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-19T23:57:47Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:58:14Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 16,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6LmVpy",
      "title": "Checklist for creation of relationships",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/16",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-18T13:31:43Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:59:56Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e3464026e1e6d2b7b735f39943af6ff43f07b0e4",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-3",
      "headRefOid": "eccf06391ca9ac11386ede1fab5a2336ec76738f",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-19T23:59:56Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-19T23:59:55Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "3ca701a593e4613e7009b35b7971ef939fd6992b"
      },
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Fix #5 ",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-18T13:32:02Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-18T13:32:02Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6cp-Ig",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "eccf063"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "I think this is a good start but it needs more detail. I will work on a change for this.",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-19T23:59:49Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-19T23:59:49Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 17,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6L6U_C",
      "title": "Update draft-krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis.md",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/17",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Explained that IETF processes and documents are open to everyone and the liaison relationship is usually required from the other organization",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-20T14:51:52Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:40:21Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "4278a74a9c84b088bb8065a4fdd4bf5ddcaf4dea",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "sureshkrishnan-patch-1-1",
      "headRefOid": "815ca878f02323f36c27c51157af9c3fe2998710",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-20T15:40:21Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-20T15:40:21Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "88ae86143e0ed8db733f4d7c74fb71eadd77ba86"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6cxy6B",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "4d7c140"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:38:20Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:38:20Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 4,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\nIt is important to note that participation in the IETF work is open to everyone, and all the working documents and RFCs are freely available to everyone without the need for a formal liaison relationship. Hence, in almost all cases the need for a formal relationship is mostly driven by other organizations rather than by the IETF.\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:38:20Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:38:20Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 18,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6L64t5",
      "title": "remove representative",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/18",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-20T15:44:36Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:13Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "88ae86143e0ed8db733f4d7c74fb71eadd77ba86",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-4",
      "headRefOid": "532e1fa9ac60936d9e1e88d1beb43241cee7a51a",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:13Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-20T15:45:13Z",
      "mergedBy": "mirjak",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "65c2f4b0a3e83037cf94478a8232e336681c698e"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 21,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MENtZ",
      "title": "header: add Mirja, mark suresh as editor, obsolete",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/21",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-21T15:24:29Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T00:08:27Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "65c2f4b0a3e83037cf94478a8232e336681c698e",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-5",
      "headRefOid": "3ed48f8d2282389dddbecc53c3e459b28e1c78f7",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-23T00:08:26Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-23T00:08:26Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "b27c1ef94ba857c82c31b0760d2ce82a4724f46b"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6dFGAV",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "3ed48f8"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-23T00:08:20Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T00:08:20Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 22,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MEQnb",
      "title": "proposal to update the acknowledgement section",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/22",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-21T15:30:41Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T00:14:48Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "65c2f4b0a3e83037cf94478a8232e336681c698e",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-6",
      "headRefOid": "7150fea2608806e8a821797970f09119358d592f",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-23T00:14:48Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-23T00:14:48Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "dfe977481ffd2dd2a08711d9118034526e0430d0"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6c9ri5",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "b9a3ca2"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-02-21T15:34:04Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-02-21T15:34:05Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 5,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\n{{?RFC4052}} was authored by Leslie Daigle and developed as part of a conversation regarding the\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-02-21T15:34:04Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-02-21T15:34:05Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 23,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MEbz1",
      "title": "New section changes compared to RFC4052",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/23",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-21T15:49:54Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T00:15:26Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "65c2f4b0a3e83037cf94478a8232e336681c698e",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-7",
      "headRefOid": "9829249b9cd75dfcf2d6f1df0aeda87c78dea8e3",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-23T00:15:26Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-23T00:15:26Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "5a82f1ec35fdfe9b4a769e4ebdfe3bf71d12b26d"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 24,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MLapQ",
      "title": "Slight updates to Acknowledgments",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/24",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-23T00:17:23Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T00:18:05Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "5a82f1ec35fdfe9b4a769e4ebdfe3bf71d12b26d",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "sureshkrishnan-patch-2",
      "headRefOid": "048e3fdfd7c4bcf17e7a45ba20a2113f54747269",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-23T00:18:05Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-23T00:18:05Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "e244ac8a67609efa20efd6e7e7e5bc0bcba087bd"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 25,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6ML7Un",
      "title": "Fix reference tag issue in the Acknowledges section",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/25",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-23T07:25:00Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-23T07:47:18Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "e244ac8a67609efa20efd6e7e7e5bc0bcba087bd",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-4",
      "headRefOid": "9f60057c2f51e4573bb0255e12cebd5265cb1eef",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-23T07:47:18Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-23T07:47:18Z",
      "mergedBy": "billwuqin",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "193e1366e17f50213bb34fd0bd6a021314440821"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 26,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6ML87V",
      "title": "Editorial changes",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/26",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-23T07:43:30Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-24T12:43:34Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "867ae537bd3a81d12651c1dfadf4411aca9cf5e9",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-5",
      "headRefOid": "bbcc8c0428cda664836b157a5b6cb6173db0cbe8",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-24T12:43:34Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-24T12:43:33Z",
      "mergedBy": "mirjak",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "b2828baea04e1a68ed2b8fe95e71b342f9f6020f"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 27,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MSCtd",
      "title": "first lists in markdown",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/27",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-24T12:35:13Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-24T12:35:44Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "193e1366e17f50213bb34fd0bd6a021314440821",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-8",
      "headRefOid": "d033928a573c465952dd84191d334b9daf46908a",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-24T12:35:44Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-24T12:35:44Z",
      "mergedBy": "mirjak",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "867ae537bd3a81d12651c1dfadf4411aca9cf5e9"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 28,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MUnza",
      "title": "Update draft-krishnan-iab-rfc4052bis.md",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/28",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "sureshkrishnan",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Fixed Qin affiliation tag",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-24T16:43:48Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-24T16:44:14Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "1e2dcd7eb1aee68ccbd4c13e11dfb4ee4a3d8910",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "sureshkrishnan-patch-3",
      "headRefOid": "b0d18b70a4ad3a9846332802df3a99dc23dccc1b",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-24T16:44:14Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-24T16:44:14Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "db4ded0c4b6bb95d6c8f8c95f1e3bebbec74aa66"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 29,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6MjOTV",
      "title": "Typos",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/29",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "martinthomson",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-02-26T01:17:05Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-02-26T01:55:03Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "920786b7237871da215d92daea341e0670a7f276",
      "headRepository": "martinthomson/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "patch-1",
      "headRefOid": "acdb6c90296cc25b3d764b0b133134d70436f951",
      "closedAt": "2025-02-26T01:55:03Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-02-26T01:55:03Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "98e3347abb3db5c2bb9b6601d7b45ec5c2ea4053"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 30,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6S_3CY",
      "title": "missing point in \"Changes\" section",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/30",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-17T14:11:57Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T13:51:00Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "26cdd96ff838e4188a1330685c8a92f9f2527d94",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-9",
      "headRefOid": "d2146d6e57dc329989a607f414957bdff735b339",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-13T13:50:59Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-06-13T13:50:59Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "40d3c7a32e41bef4fb14205de44d716d791598c3"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 32,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6TANZ8",
      "title": "Proposed further text on purpose/pre-conditions to establish a formal\u2026",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/32",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "mirjak",
      "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "\u2026 relationship",
      "createdAt": "2025-04-17T14:51:37Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:12:47Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "26cdd96ff838e4188a1330685c8a92f9f2527d94",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "mirjak-patch-10",
      "headRefOid": "5690ecc26a1d36efb8b02544ab0418c72d0d4baf",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-13T15:12:47Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-06-13T15:12:47Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "bd6b58ccc008b95e0133f7f0f61889e2bae64981"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6ld_Dy",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "0753bf1"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-17T15:05:01Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-17T15:05:02Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 11,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\nparticipants conducting the work.\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-04-17T15:05:01Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-04-17T15:05:02Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6leALR",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "be8773e"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-04-17T15:06:22Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-04-17T15:06:23Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 25,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\n   might make a more formal structure beneficial. However, this case could also be addressed with other kinds of IAB structures and\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-04-17T15:06:23Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-04-17T15:06:23Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 34,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6U1tBk",
      "title": "Describe liaison relationships for IRTF",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/34",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "#13",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-04T03:01:13Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-07T12:01:10Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "26cdd96ff838e4188a1330685c8a92f9f2527d94",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-6",
      "headRefOid": "b6947432c40099e6cef6f02521ed566ded96ffc1",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-07T12:01:10Z",
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "I think this text belongs into RFC4053bis. @sureshkrishnan indicated that he want to note it in both docs but why?\r\n\r\nIf we want to note something in RFC4052bis that it should be a liaison relationships. Maybe we can say somewhere that the IRTF is not an SDO and therefore not part of the formal relationship (but might be handled by the IAB).",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-26T14:15:50Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T14:15:50Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "I have moved PR #34 from 4052bis to 4053bis",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-07T12:01:08Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-07T12:01:08Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 35,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6U1u_K",
      "title": "Recommend both side to appoint liaison manager",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/35",
      "state": "CLOSED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Target to #9 \r\nThis is a little over design, in my thinking",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-04T03:24:51Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T15:49:15Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "26cdd96ff838e4188a1330685c8a92f9f2527d94",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-7",
      "headRefOid": "c9dfcdf0df711dfe703ddc8ab3c8fe6d8de381f5",
      "closedAt": "2025-05-27T15:49:15Z",
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [
        {
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "body": "I wouldn't want to add this in this sentence. For the IETF, creating a liaison relationship implies that we appoint a liaison manager and maybe we should say that somewhere in the document explicitly (if not already notes somewhere). However, what the process of the other SDO is, is not in our hands. An SDO could also e.g. decide to not have an explicit liaison or handle all formal liaisons through a central role. For example I think we don't have a counter part in ISO and our liaison manager would probably handle both incoming and outgoing liaisons.\r\n\r\nAlso note that this change to not address issue #9. Therefore please do not use the keyword \"fix\"; using this keyword would automatically close the issue when this PR is merged.",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-26T14:52:54Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T14:52:54Z"
        },
        {
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "body": "Good point, this also align with my comment in #9, but how we can address this issue? Does nothing, rather than document unwritten agreement to have liaison manager in both side?",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-27T13:17:42Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-27T13:17:42Z"
        }
      ],
      "reviews": []
    },
    {
      "number": 36,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6U17lZ",
      "title": "RFC4691 consolidation",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/36",
      "state": "MERGED",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "Relevant to #6",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-04T06:51:30Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:12Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "26cdd96ff838e4188a1330685c8a92f9f2527d94",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-8",
      "headRefOid": "b0ed6af0529967eff28431267761c87e47ba64bb",
      "closedAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:11Z",
      "mergedAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:11Z",
      "mergedBy": "sureshkrishnan",
      "mergeCommit": {
        "oid": "d33a3cee380257797d0c76624be7b48f4b5aca20"
      },
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6q_Rc7",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "4d824f9"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-26T15:06:20Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:06:20Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 81,
              "body": "Note that Section 3.4 in RFC4691 is an extended version of the list provided in RFC4052 in section 3.\r\n\r\nI think we should not add these points.\r\n\r\nOn the first bullet, I don't think we should have a requirement to provide reports if everything runs fine. It's more a requirement/duty for the IAB to check from time to time with the liaison manager if things are actually fine.\r\n\r\nFurther, I think the second bullet is not needed as the more detailed responsibilities are listed above already. I don't think this text adds much. If a liaison manager helps to write the reply text, he/she would also do that more as an expert but not necessarily as part of the liaison manager role. But there is no requirement for the liaison manager to right the text; usually the chairs/ADs or some technical expert should write the text. \r\n\r\n",
              "createdAt": "2025-05-26T15:06:20Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:06:20Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6tSi-v",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "4d824f9"
          },
          "author": "billwuqin",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-07T12:11:29Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-07T12:11:29Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 81,
              "body": "Agree Section 3.4 in RFC4691 overlap with section 3 of RFC4052 in section 3.\r\nThe list provided in section 3 of RFC4052bis has already been good enough, I will remove this duplicated part proposed in this PR ",
              "createdAt": "2025-06-07T12:11:29Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-06-07T12:11:30Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6uWxq-",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "746e2fd"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:19:19Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:19:19Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 8,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\nmanager must not send liaison statements on their own initiative to a\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:19:19Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:19:20Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6uWyeK",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "0832fc1"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:20:16Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:20:16Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 14,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\nthe IETF consensus is understood.\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:20:16Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:20:32Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6uW0ZW",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "5ef7eda"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:22:19Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:22:19Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 68,
              "body": "```suggestion\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:22:19Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:22:19Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6uW1QU",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "b0ed6af"
          },
          "author": "sureshkrishnan",
          "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
          "state": "APPROVED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:00Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-06-13T15:23:00Z",
          "comments": []
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 37,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6U18uy",
      "title": "Clarify when we need IAB support groups",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/37",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "billwuqin",
      "authorAssociation": "CONTRIBUTOR",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-05-04T07:05:58Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:15:23Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "26cdd96ff838e4188a1330685c8a92f9f2527d94",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "billwuqin-patch-9",
      "headRefOid": "ed445a850b9fc0a13f84735ef92212a79b87926a",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": [
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6q_Yng",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "ed445a8"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-26T15:13:29Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:13:29Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 6,
              "body": "\"Coordination Support Groups\" are not officially defined anywhere in an RFC and therefore don't have to exist in future, there is would be good to formulate this more generally: \r\n```suggestion\r\nIf more tight coordination is needed, e.g. in cases where there are\r\na larger number of document dependencies, especially when\r\nspecifications are developed in parallel, the IAB might consider\r\nadditional activities such as meetings or call with the relevant\r\npeople (e.g. chairs, ADs, and authors). Such activities could be\r\none-time events or organised in a standing groups. The liaison manager\r\nshould be involved in these activities and may even help to lead the\r\norganisation of those activities.\r\n```",
              "createdAt": "2025-05-26T15:13:29Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:13:29Z"
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "id": "PRR_kwDOMUjy5c6q_Zjz",
          "commit": {
            "abbreviatedOid": "ed445a8"
          },
          "author": "mirjak",
          "authorAssociation": "MEMBER",
          "state": "COMMENTED",
          "body": "",
          "createdAt": "2025-05-26T15:15:23Z",
          "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:15:23Z",
          "comments": [
            {
              "originalPosition": 6,
              "body": "Also not sure this is the right place in the document? Maybe it would be better to move this into the intro because these activities are actually _NOT_ part of the formal liaison relationship but more something the IAB decides to do in addition.",
              "createdAt": "2025-05-26T15:15:23Z",
              "updatedAt": "2025-05-26T15:15:23Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "number": 42,
      "id": "PR_kwDOMUjy5c6fbQQ0",
      "title": "minor-edits",
      "url": "https://github.com/intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis/pull/42",
      "state": "OPEN",
      "author": "dhruvdhody",
      "authorAssociation": "NONE",
      "assignees": [],
      "labels": [],
      "body": "",
      "createdAt": "2025-07-17T17:59:15Z",
      "updatedAt": "2025-07-17T17:59:16Z",
      "baseRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "baseRefName": "main",
      "baseRefOid": "d33a3cee380257797d0c76624be7b48f4b5aca20",
      "headRepository": "intarchboard/draft-iab-rfc4052bis",
      "headRefName": "dhruvdhody-patch-minor-edits",
      "headRefOid": "51c5488c754a8002106cf555f0b4952603d2fbec",
      "closedAt": null,
      "mergedAt": null,
      "mergedBy": null,
      "mergeCommit": null,
      "comments": [],
      "reviews": []
    }
  ]
}